$Id: terms.txt,v 1.5 2000/03/17 04:08:55 ian Exp $
AMD	American Micro Devices: a chip maker that competes with Intel.
API	Application Programmer Interface: a set of functions that a programmer can use
ASP	Active Server Pages, a Microsoft technology for imbedding certain commands in HTML pages
BSD	Berkeley Software Distribution, one of the two major flavors of UNIX. See OpenBSD
C	A computer programming language invented for writing UNIX in, and very popular in the late 1970's through the 1990's
C++	An Object-Oriented language heavily based on C; recently displaced by Java
CGI	Common Gateway Interface; a script or program used to handle a form on a web page
COBOL	COmmon Business Oriented Language, a programming language used mainly for large-scale financial applications.
CPU	Central Processing Unit, the "chip" that gives a computer its low-level personality ("machine instruction set") and performs individual instructions (add, multiply, compare...). Common CPUs include Intel/AMD "PC", SPARC, Alpha.
FTP	File Transfer Protocol, older method of transferring files; can be used interactively or as a URL
Fortran	A programming language popular from the 1960's to the 1980's, mostly for scientific, engineering and numerical calculation
Free software	Software that you don't pay for and/or that you can do what you like with
GNU	GNU's Not UNIX, a self-referential acronym; the name of a long-planned UNIX clone
GPL	GNU Public License: an anti-property-rights license used on some free software
HTML	Hyper Text Markup Language, the language used to write most web pages
HTTP	Hyper Text Transfer Protocol, the standard way of transferring web pages from a server to your computer
IBM	International Business Machines, a COBOL Mainframe company that set the original standards for the PC
JDK	Java Development Kit
JRE	Java Runtime Environment, the runtime-only parts of the JDK
JSP	Java Server Pages, a technique for imbedding Java code in HTML pages
Java	A popular object-oriented programming language and environment
Java API	The large collection of platform-independant APIs that accompanies Java
JavaScript	A scripting language for embedding commands in Web pages.
Linux	A clone of UNIX.
Logo	A language invented for didactic purposes. Popular in education
MIDI	A standard format for recording music.
Microsoft	You know who these guys are.
OpenBSD	A BSD UNIX-like system noted for near-infinite security. Makes a good web server.
PC	Personal Computer; either an IBM-style PC or any computer primarily usable by one person
PDF	Portable Document Format, a "shrink wrapped" formatted document
PHP	A technique for imbedding certain commands in HTML pages
Pascal	A block-structured procedural language similar to C (slighly better declarations; not very popular now)
Rlogin	Remote Login (UNIX only): remote terminal-style login
SDK	Software Development Kit, a package used to develop programs for a particular environment
SGML	Standard Generalized Markup Language, a standard upon which both HTML and XML are based.
SPARC	Scalable Processor Architecture, a kind of CPU made by Sun Microsystems
SSH	Secure SHell, replaces rlogin, telnet and ftp with a more secure protocol
Sun	Sun Microsystems, inventors of Sun Workstation, SPARCstation, and Java
Telnet	Old Internet line-mode network login
UNIX	A portable operating system widely used in academia
URL	Uniform Resource Locator; the address on the Internet of a resource like a web page
VBScript	A Microsoft scripting language for HTML pages
VMS	"Virtual Memory System", an operating system popular on the now-defunct VAX computer line (built by Digital Equipment before Compaq swallowed them up)
Visual Basic	A Microsoft scripting language and GUI builder
X, X11	"X Windows", or The X Window System: the windowing system used on all UNIX systems.
XML	eXtensible Markup Language, a technique for self-describing objects, syntactically similar to HTML
~	Used at front of a personal URL; from the UNIX abbreviation for "my personal directory"
